---
layout: post
title: AE-1 repair part two: the capacitor capers

image: flexaret_v/flexaret_v_hero.jpg

---
I thought I had watched enough [Marco Reps](https://youtu.be/qhr6h7wuqo0?t=276) and [Fazio Electric](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWODkkyItzvmQF-JTycUFow) to know that you always replace old capacitors when refurbishing aging electronics, but alas, in my excitement at having a working camera, I forgot the wisdom of the elders. Time to learn things the hard way, I guess.

A while ago, I fixed up the shutter release circuit of an old Canon AE-1, check out [AE-1 repair part 1: the diode dilemma](LINK HERE). The debugging process took forever, but the eventual fix was short, just giving it a new diode where one had mysteriously gone missing. Unfortunately, the camera only worked for a few months before more shutter issues. Again, lots of poking about including in the top of the camera:

IMAGE OF TOP OF CAMERA

It's hard to believe that electronics used to be designed this way and were mass produced. The pure chaos of it all is hard to even look at. I considered venturing deeper into the camera to check the shutter mechanism, maybe a part had come loose and lodged itself into one of the many gears and linkages in this ridiculously complex little bundle of pain and joy. But it didn't feel right, I had a feeling that the problem wasn't somewhere deep in the camera. I checked the electronic switch in the shutter and the exposed shutter mechanisms extensively. Finally, I put the camera aside. After a month or two, I tried again. Anyway, as it turns out, the problem wasn't in the top. It was back where we started, in the same shutter release circuit, in fact, it was right next door to the diode I replaced last time. It was a failed capacitor. In my hubris and naivete, I had neglected to replace it and now I had paid the price.

This failed capacitor had been very tricky to identify. I had not overlooked it during my initial debugging. When I removed the battery, the capacitor read true on the trusty multimeter. I had checked and made sure that the circuit was receiving the correct voltage (it was), and that the magnet windings had not shorted (they hadn't), even that the capacitor was receiving the correct voltage (it was). The thing that I did not do was to read the capacitance or voltage across the capacitor with the battery in place, this would have revealed a different, more sinister story. The capacitor was not charging. If the capacitor was not charging, it wouldn't be able to discharge through the electromagnet and release the shutter.

With replacement in hand, I set to work.
